For the most part, we had kept uncertainty
out of our prescriptive analytic models.
In this last part of our course,
you will learn how to consider uncertainty
when developing optimization models.
This video, in particular, deals with
the notion of chance constraints and
value at risk.
To illustrate these concepts,
let's consider the following situation.
Maintenance at a production facility
is an ongoing process that occurs 24
hours a day.
Because it is a long drive from mass
residential areas to the facility,
employees do not like to work
shifts of fewer than 8 hours.
These 8-hour shifts start every
4 hours throughout the day.
The number of maintenance workers
needed at different times
throughout the day varies.
The expected number of workers needed
in each time period is given in
the following table.
The facility manager would like to
determine the number of employees to
schedule in order to meet
the expected staff requirements.
This problem can be solved by
setting up an optimization model
using the expected values.
The optimal solution to this problem is
a crew of 64 employees that are scheduled,
as shown in this table.
Sees the employees work eight-hour shifts,
the available employees in the table
are the ones that start their shift
in the current period plus the ones
that start in the previous period.
For example, there are 34 employees
available between 4:00 and
8:00 in the morning,
9 that start at midnight and
25 that start at 4:00 in the morning.
The requirements that we have used
to come up with these solutions
are expected values.
This means that the actual requirements
at a given day are random variables.
Consider the requirement of 30 employees
for the period between 4 PM and 8 PM.
Supposed that after some data analysis,
it is determined that there are ten
possible requirement scenarios.
The average requirement is 30,
but there is some variability.
Because of this variability, the optimal
solution found with expected values
results in only 5 times out of 10 where
the staff requirements are satisfied.
In other words, there is a 50% chance
that the requirement constraint for
the period between 4 and
8 PM is satisfied.
To increase the chance of
satisfying the constraint,
we will need to increase the number of
employees available in that period.
For instance, if the number of
employees that start at 4:00 is changed
from 13 to 15, then the chance that the
constraint is satisfied increases to 70%.
This illustrates the notion
of a chance constraint.
This special type of constraint
is such that it is satisfied
only in a fraction of these scenarios.
This fraction is known as
the Value at Risk, or VaR.
Note that Value at Risk doesn't account
for the magnitude of the violation.
It just counts the number of times
that the constraint was not satisfied.
To account for
the magnitude of the validation,
you can use what is called
Conditional Value at Risk.
However, here, we're only going to
illustrate Value at Risk constraints.
Simulation is the most
common mechanism for
developing a model with VaR constraints.
Locate and open the Excel file
Maintenance Staff Scheduling.
In this spreadsheet, we use our
traditional color scheme where the light
gold indicates decision variables,
green indicates uncertainty, and
light orange indicates
the objective function.
The difference between this model and
the one that uses expected values
is that the staff requirements are modeled
with a probability distribution function.
This model uses the Poisson distribution
for all the staff requirements.
Click on the ASP tab to
access the model panel.
You can see that the objective of
the model is to minimize the total staff.
The decision variables
are the scheduled employees.
There is a single set
of chance constraints.
Double click on the constraints
to display the dialogue window.
The form of the constraint is
the same as a normal constraint, but
we have chosen VaR as
the type of constraint.
We also need to choose a chance value.
In this case, we have chosen 0.6, or 60%.
The optimal solution found with expected
values results in probabilities
of satisfying requirement constraints
that are less than 60% for
several of the periods during the day.
These values are given
in the chance column.
The total number of employees
in this solution is 64.
Click the solve button to find
a solution with the chance constraints.
The output tab states that the solver
found a conservative solution
to the robust constraint problem.
This solution is conservative because the
probability of satisfying the requirements
is much higher than the 60%
that we established.
This is due to the way
ASP solves the problem.
So it is a good idea to display
these probabilities to figure out
how conservative the solution is.
In this case, setting up the chance
value at 60% gives a solution
that is very robust with
an increase of 21 employees.
We could even try
lowering the chance value
to find solutions with fewer employees and
with a reasonable probability
of satisfying the requirements.
We have seen how chance constraints
can be used to add on certainty
to optimization models.
Conceptually, chance
constraints are fairly simple.
Instead of insisting that a constraint
is satisfied 100% of the time,
we allow the constraint to be
satisfied a fraction of the time.
This allows us to find solutions that
are more robust than those found with
expected values but that they are not
trying to cover all possible scenarios.
Solutions that cover
all possible scenarios
tend to be very expensive because
they require a lot of resources.
In our next and final video,
will go beyond chance constraints to
take advantage of the full integration
of simulation and optimization.